README.md, before:

# POC for DAO governance based on stellar smart contracts

This repository will hold a Proof of Concept for DAO governance based on Stellar. It is created in collaboration of Instant DAO and The Turrets DAO.

Currently it contains one smart contract that will be upladed on 5 different turret servers. The smart contract is work in progress.

Following chapters describe the process we have come up with for this prototype. Depending on progress, we will adjust it accordingly.

The process is made up of four actions : 
 
- ***create*** *proposal*

- ***close*** *proposal*

- ***tally*** *proposal*

- ***execute*** *proposal*

The smart contract implements these four actions. When executed, the desired action is specified via the parameter ```action```.

## Create proposal

To create a new proposal the user has to execute the smart contract with the action parameter set to ```action='create'```. 

Other **parameters** are:

- account id of the source account that will fund the create proposal process - see [source accout](#source-account-to-create-a-proposal)
- account id of a nonce account that has a small balance and is controlled by the turret signers.
- a secret seed for a proposal account that does not yet exist and should be created - see [proposal account](#seed-for-the-proposal-account)
- a link to the general dao specifications for proposals - see [dao data specification](#dao-specifications-for-proposals)
- a link to the specific configuration of the proposal - see [proposal data specification](#specification-of-the-proposal)
- a list of 5 turret signers on which this contract is run and which are responsible for signing further steps (close, tally, execute) - see [turret signers](#turret-signers).

The **XDR** resulting from the execution of the contract is signed by the turret servers and has to be also signed by the user with the seed of the proposal account before submitted to the stellar network.  


### Source account to create a proposal

The source account must have enough XLM to pay for the creation + voting tokens to fund the bond.

- *balance*: tbd - approx 5-10 XLM to be able to finance the creation of the proposal
- *balance*: voting tokens to be stacked as definded by CREATE_PROPOSAL_BOND (see [dao data specification](#dao-specifications-for-proposals))

### Nonce account controlled by the turrets

This account is needed to make sure that the proposal can only be created if the turret signers sign the transaction generated by the create proposal action of the smart contract.

- *master key weight*: 0
- *all thresholds*: 3
- *signers*: the 5 turret signers, each having a weight of 1
- *balance*: 3.6 XLM

### Seed for the proposal account

It should be a random secret seed of an account that does not yet exist and is yet to be created. It is used for creating a proposal account. The smart contract cannot create its own, because it runs on 5 different turret servers and each server would generate a different secret seed. But don't worry, the master key of this account will be set to a weight of 0. So the seed is only needed for the creation of the account, but has no further signing possibilities.

### DAO specifications for proposals

The specifications are stored in a separate file. It must be located under <doa-domain>/.well-known/dao.toml with CORS enabled. 

It is a toml file and must contain the following data fields:

| Field name | Mandatory | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| VERSION| required |Version number of this data format. Currently 0.0.1|
| DAO_NAME| required |The name of the DAO (e.g "The Turrets DAO").|
| DAO_DESCRIPTION| required |Description of the DAO. (e.g. its mission)|
| DAO_OFFICIAL_EMAIL| required |Contact email address.|
| DAO_URL| required |Link to the official home page of the DAO.|
| PROPOSAL_VOTING_TOKEN| required |Canonical form of the token to be used for votion on proposals. (e.g. "GOV:GBNOMH3B6BIQE65TZVVBNOCTMLN7MYORU5GX6YNBX5YBGCI45R2EMGOV")|
| CREATE_PROPOSAL_BOND| required |The amount of voting tokens the creator of the proposal must stake to be allowed to create the proposal.|
| MIN_VOTING_POWER_CREATE_QUORUM| required |The minimum amount of tokens (votes) an option must receive to win the proposal.|
| MIN_VOTING_DURATION_SECONDS| required |The minimum number of seconds that a proposal must be active.|
| PROPOSAL_ACCOUNT_RESCUE_SIGNERS| required |A list of 3 signers that can be used by the DAO to control a proposal account in case of emergency.|
| DAO_PUBLIC_KEY| required |The DAO public key used to sign the fields of this file (shown above)|
| SIGNATURE| required |The signature resulting from signing the data with the DAO public key.|

Example:

```
VERSION="0.0.1"
DAO_NAME="Test DAO"
DAO_DESCRIPTION="A DAO for testing stuff"
DAO_OFFICIAL_EMAIL="hi@testdao.org"
DAO_URL="https://testdao.org"
DAO_VOTING_TOKEN="GOV:GBNOMH3B6BIQE65TZVVBNOCTMLN7MYORU5GX6YNBX5YBGCI45R2EMGOV"
CREATE_PROPOSAL_BOND="100"
MIN_VOTING_POWER_CREATE_QUORUM="40000"
MIN_VOTING_DURATION_SECONDS="300"
PROPOSAL_ACCOUNT_RESCUE_SIGNERS=[
"GCBY2B7KKVE4T66B4ZECNLOYT3Y772GHJTATP33IDUSYXTZSJNNYRWX5",
"GAA72JLMNMAIZ44XYYNKACANN6THCU7MLKB4M3YDFOHI4IEU4PLTDLLY",
"GDUGCQEZ5XOCZ6MDXI44ZALD4GDJBHE6XZAXPRB7DTGJ6O2S76VG7FML"
]
DAO_PUBLIC_KEY="GAZZWLZCTLL2GMEICJWMGF4T3BDE6QTQEQDCBKJGXKUUD3D66THAGDAO"
SIGNATURE="..."
```

### Specification of the proposal

The specifications are stored in a separate file.  The file must be stored and made available for access by the smart contract via a link (e.g. IPFS). The content of the file must not be changed after the creation of the proposal. This is ensured by a hash that is stored in the proposal account data. A link to the proposal specifications is passed as a parameter for each action of the contract (create, close, tally, execute). The integrity of the content is then checked in the smart contract based on the hash stored in the proposal account.

It is a toml file and must contain the following data fields:

| Field name | Mandatory | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| VERSION| required |Version number of this data format. Currently 0.0.1|
| PROPOSAL_NAME| required |Name of the proposal to be displayed to the voter.|
| PROPOSAL_DESCRIPTION| required |Description of the proposal to be displayed to the voter. markdown|
| PROPOSAL_CONTACT_EMAIL| required |Contact email address of the creator of this proposal.|
| PROPOSAL_DISCUSSION_LINK| required |Link to the official discussion forum for this proposal (e.g. link to discord server)|
| PROPOSAL_VOTING_TOKEN| required |must be the same as DAO_VOTING_TOKEN from dao.toml on proposal creation.|
| PROPOSAL_DURATION_SECONDS| required |must be greater or equal to MIN_VOTING_DURATION_SECONDS from dao.toml on proposal creation.|
| PROPOSAL_MIN_VOTING_POWER_CREATE_QUORUM| must be greater or equal to MIN_VOTING_POWER_CREATE_QUORUM from dao.toml on proposal creation.|
| PROPOSAL_QUORUM_CRITERIA| optional |fixed or dynamic (tbd)|
| PROPOSAL_VOTING_OPTIONS| required |The voting options|

Each votin option must contain following data fields

| Field name | Mandatory | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TITLE| required |Title of the voting option.|
| DESCRIPTION| required |Description of the voting option to be displayed to the voter.|
| XDR| required |The xdr to be signed by the turret signers in case the option has won the election. It will be signed in the ```execute``` action step.|

Example:

```
VERSION="0.0.1"
PROPOSAL_NAME="Test Proposal"
PROPOSAL_DESCRIPTION="The description of this proposal"
PROPOSAL_CONTACT_EMAIL="hi@testdao.org"
PROPOSAL_DISCUSSION_LINK="https://testdao.org"
PROPOSAL_VOTING_TOKEN="GOV:GBNOMH3B6BIQE65TZVVBNOCTMLN7MYORU5GX6YNBX5YBGCI45R2EMGOV"
PROPOSAL_DURATION_SECONDS="3000"
MIN_VOTING_POWER_CREATE_QUORUM="40000"
PROPOSAL_QUORUM_CRITERIA="fixed"
[[PROPOSAL_VOTING_OPTIONS]]
label="one"
value="vote for one"
xdr="AAAAAgAAAAAzmy8imtejMIgSbMMXk9hGT0JwJAYgqSa6qUHsfvTOAwAAAGQAFDXMAAAAAQAAAAEAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAEAAAAAAAAAAQAAAABjI7vSXjmgz0+a3XZS/qPXSjVpkiTnnDovaOi12CdJ2AAAAAAAAAAABfXhAAAAAAAAAAAA"
[[PROPOSAL_VOTING_OPTIONS]]
label="one"
value="vote for one"
xdr="AAAAAgAAAAAzmy8imtejMIgSbMMXk9hGT0JwJAYgqSa6qUHsfvTOAwAAAGQAFDXMAAAAAQAAAAEAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAEAAAAAAAAAAQAAAABjI7vSXjmgz0+a3XZS/qPXSjVpkiTnnDovaOi12CdJ2AAAAAAAAAAAC+vCAAAAAAAAAAAA"
```

### Turret signers

The smart contract must be uploaded to 5 turret servers. When uploading, a specific sigener for the contract is returned from each turret server. With this signer the turret server signs the resulting xdr as soon as the smart contract is executed. The 5 signers must be passed as parameters to the smart contract when creating the proposal, so that they can be set as signers of the proposal account.

### Contract logic of the create proposal action

#### 1. validate parameters and data
#### 2. create xdr based on data provided by the parameters
#### 2.a. create the proposal account having
- *signers*: 5 turret signers provided by parameter and 3 DAO rescue signers from dao.toml:PROPOSAL_ACCOUNT_RESCUE_SIGNERS, each having a weight of 1
- *master key weight*: 0
- *thresholds*: all set to 3
- *data entries*: ```staus="active"```, ```proposal_data_hash="..."```
#### 2.b. let the proposal account trust the voting tokens
#### 2.c. create a selling offer for each proposal option
- *selling*: "OPTION[x]:proposal_account_id" tokens 
- *buying*: voting tokens asspecifield in dao.toml (PROPOSAL_VOTING_TOKEN)
- *amount*: max
- *price:* 1.0
#### 2.d. create a payment of voting tokens from the source account to the proposal account (bond)
- *amount*: as specified in CREATE_PROPOSAL_BOND
#### 2.e. create small a payment of XLM from the nonce account to the proposal account
- this is to make sure that the xdr can only be send to the stellar network if signed by min 3 turret signers.

## Voting

Voters puchase the "OPTION[x]:proposal_account_id" tokens offered by the proposal account. They can exchange them back for voting tokens after the tally.

## Close proposal

To close a proposal the user has to execute the smart contract with the action parameter set to ```action='close'```. 

Other **parameters** are:
- account id of the source account used to finance this operation (executors account)
- proposal account id - see [create proposal](#-create-proposal)
- a link to the specific configuration of the proposal - see [proposal data specification](#specification-of-the-proposal)

The **XDR** resulting from the execution of the contract is signed by the turret servers and has to be also signed by the user with the signer(s) of the source account before submitted to the stellar network.  

### Contract logic of the close proposal action

#### 1. validate parameters and data
#### 2. delete offers if the proposal can be closed (check duration)
#### 3. set status to closed in data entry of proposal account


## Tally proposal

To count the votes of a closed proposal the user has to execute the smart contract with the action parameter set to ```action='tally'```. 

Other **parameters** are:
- account id of the source account used to finance this operation (executors account)
- proposal account id - see [create proposal](#-create-proposal)
- a link to the specific configuration of the proposal - see [proposal data specification](#specification-of-the-proposal)

The **XDR** resulting from the execution of the contract is signed by the turret servers and has to be also signed by the user with the signer(s) of the source account before submitted to the stellar network.  

### Contract logic of the tally proposal action

#### 1. validate parameters and data
#### 2. count the votes and find the winner
#### 3. set status to finished if winner was found otherwise to failed (no option reached the quorum)
#### 4. create offers to sell the collected voting tokens back to the voters
- *selling*: voting tokens asspecifield in dao.toml (PROPOSAL_VOTING_TOKEN)
- *buying*: "OPTION[x]:proposal_account_id" tokens 
- *amount*: calculated by query horizon assets endpoint
- *price:* 1.0
#### 5. create a payment operation to send the bond back to the creator
#### 6. merge nonce account into source account

## Execute proposal

For execution of a finished proposal the user has to call the smart contract with the action parameter set to ```action='execute'```. 

Other **parameters** are:
- account id of the source account used to finance this operation (executors account)
- proposal account id - see [create proposal](#-create-proposal)
- a link to the specific configuration of the proposal - see [proposal data specification](#specification-of-the-proposal)

The **XDR** resulting from the execution of the contract is signed by the turret servers.

### Contract logic of the execution proposal action

#### 1. validate parameters and data
#### 2. load and return the winner option xdr from the proposal data

## Test curretnt version
You can find a description here on how to [test the smart contract locally](smart-contracts/).

Commit message:

Updated README with definition of quorum

README.md, after:

# POC for DAO governance based on stellar smart contracts

This repository will hold a Proof of Concept for DAO governance based on Stellar. It is created in collaboration of Instant DAO and The Turrets DAO.

Currently it contains one smart contract that will be upladed on 5 different turret servers. The smart contract is work in progress.

Following chapters describe the process we have come up with for this prototype. Depending on progress, we will adjust it accordingly.

The process is made up of four actions : 
 
- ***create*** *proposal*

- ***close*** *proposal*

- ***tally*** *proposal*

- ***execute*** *proposal*

The smart contract implements these four actions. When executed, the desired action is specified via the parameter ```action```.

## Create proposal

To create a new proposal the user has to execute the smart contract with the action parameter set to ```action='create'```. 

Other **parameters** are:

- account id of the source account that will fund the create proposal process - see [source accout](#source-account-to-create-a-proposal)
- account id of a nonce account that has a small balance and is controlled by the turret signers.
- a secret seed for a proposal account that does not yet exist and should be created - see [proposal account](#seed-for-the-proposal-account)
- a link to the general dao specifications for proposals - see [dao data specification](#dao-specifications-for-proposals)
- a link to the specific configuration of the proposal - see [proposal data specification](#specification-of-the-proposal)
- a list of 5 turret signers on which this contract is run and which are responsible for signing further steps (close, tally, execute) - see [turret signers](#turret-signers).

The **XDR** resulting from the execution of the contract is signed by the turret servers and has to be also signed by the user with the seed of the proposal account before submitted to the stellar network.  


### Source account to create a proposal

The source account must have enough XLM to pay for the creation + voting tokens to fund the bond.

- *balance*: tbd - approx 5-10 XLM to be able to finance the creation of the proposal
- *balance*: voting tokens to be stacked as definded by CREATE_PROPOSAL_BOND (see [dao data specification](#dao-specifications-for-proposals))

### Nonce account controlled by the turrets

This account is needed to make sure that the proposal can only be created if the turret signers sign the transaction generated by the create proposal action of the smart contract.

- *master key weight*: 0
- *all thresholds*: 3
- *signers*: the 5 turret signers, each having a weight of 1
- *balance*: 3.6 XLM

### Seed for the proposal account

It should be a random secret seed of an account that does not yet exist and is yet to be created. It is used for creating a proposal account. The smart contract cannot create its own, because it runs on 5 different turret servers and each server would generate a different secret seed. But don't worry, the master key of this account will be set to a weight of 0. So the seed is only needed for the creation of the account, but has no further signing possibilities.

### DAO specifications for proposals

The specifications are stored in a separate file. It must be located under <doa-domain>/.well-known/dao.toml with CORS enabled. 

It is a toml file and must contain the following data fields:

| Field name | Mandatory | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| VERSION| required |Version number of this data format. Currently 0.0.1|
| DAO_NAME| required |The name of the DAO (e.g "The Turrets DAO").|
| DAO_DESCRIPTION| required |Description of the DAO. (e.g. its mission)|
| DAO_OFFICIAL_EMAIL| required |Contact email address.|
| DAO_URL| required |Link to the official home page of the DAO.|
| PROPOSAL_VOTING_TOKEN| required |Canonical form of the token to be used for votion on proposals. (e.g. "GOV:GBNOMH3B6BIQE65TZVVBNOCTMLN7MYORU5GX6YNBX5YBGCI45R2EMGOV")|
| CREATE_PROPOSAL_BOND| required |The amount of voting tokens the creator of the proposal must stake to be allowed to create the proposal.|
| QUORUM_STATIC| optional |A proposal must have at least this number of total voting tokens casted for the winning option to be deemed valid. If not set, the option with highest votes wins unconditionally. If set, a proposal with not enough votes by the deadline fails unconditionally. |
| QUORUM_PERCENT_CIRCULATION| optional |Similar to QUORUM_STATIC, except the quorum is defined as a percent of the circulating supply. Circulating supply = Total Supply - Total Balance of NON_VOTING_ACCOUNTS |
| NON_VOTING_ACCOUNTS| optional |A list of addresses whoses balances should be removed for the purpose of circulating supply calculation. These are typically "foundation" or holding accounts. |
| MIN_VOTING_DURATION_SECONDS| required |The minimum number of seconds that a proposal must be active (can receive votes).|
| PROPOSAL_ACCOUNT_RESCUE_SIGNERS| required |A list of 3 signers that can be used by the DAO to control a proposal account in case of emergency.|
| DAO_PUBLIC_KEY| required |The DAO public key used to sign the fields of this file (shown above)|
| SIGNATURE| required |The signature resulting from signing the data with the DAO public key.|

Example:

```
VERSION="0.0.1"
DAO_NAME="Test DAO"
DAO_DESCRIPTION="A DAO for testing stuff"
DAO_OFFICIAL_EMAIL="hi@testdao.org"
DAO_URL="https://testdao.org"
DAO_VOTING_TOKEN="GOV:GBNOMH3B6BIQE65TZVVBNOCTMLN7MYORU5GX6YNBX5YBGCI45R2EMGOV"
CREATE_PROPOSAL_BOND="100"
QUORUM_STATIC="40000"
MIN_VOTING_DURATION_SECONDS="300"
PROPOSAL_ACCOUNT_RESCUE_SIGNERS=[
"GCBY2B7KKVE4T66B4ZECNLOYT3Y772GHJTATP33IDUSYXTZSJNNYRWX5",
"GAA72JLMNMAIZ44XYYNKACANN6THCU7MLKB4M3YDFOHI4IEU4PLTDLLY",
"GDUGCQEZ5XOCZ6MDXI44ZALD4GDJBHE6XZAXPRB7DTGJ6O2S76VG7FML"
]
DAO_PUBLIC_KEY="GAZZWLZCTLL2GMEICJWMGF4T3BDE6QTQEQDCBKJGXKUUD3D66THAGDAO"
SIGNATURE="..."
```

### Specification of the proposal

The specifications are stored in a separate file.  The file must be stored and made available for access by the smart contract via a link (e.g. IPFS). The content of the file must not be changed after the creation of the proposal. This is ensured by a hash that is stored in the proposal account data. A link to the proposal specifications is passed as a parameter for each action of the contract (create, close, tally, execute). The integrity of the content is then checked in the smart contract based on the hash stored in the proposal account.

It is a toml file and must contain the following data fields:

| Field name | Mandatory | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| VERSION| required |Version number of this data format. Currently 0.0.1|
| PROPOSAL_NAME| required |Name of the proposal to be displayed to the voter.|
| PROPOSAL_DESCRIPTION| required |Description of the proposal to be displayed to the voter. markdown|
| PROPOSAL_CONTACT_EMAIL| required |Contact email address of the creator of this proposal.|
| PROPOSAL_DISCUSSION_LINK| required |Link to the official discussion forum for this proposal (e.g. link to discord server)|
| PROPOSAL_VOTING_TOKEN| required |must be the same as DAO_VOTING_TOKEN from dao.toml on proposal creation.|
| PROPOSAL_DURATION_SECONDS| required |must be greater or equal to MIN_VOTING_DURATION_SECONDS from dao.toml on proposal creation.|
| PROPOSAL_MIN_VOTING_POWER_CREATE_QUORUM| must be greater or equal to MIN_VOTING_POWER_CREATE_QUORUM from dao.toml on proposal creation.|
| QUORUM_STATIC| optional |Same as QUORUM_STATIC field in dao.toml on proposal creation. If QUORUM_PERCENT_CIRCULATION is set in DAO rules, it will be converted to QUORUM_STATIC on proposal creation based based on token balances at that time.|
| PROPOSAL_VOTING_OPTIONS| required |The voting options|

Each votin option must contain following data fields

| Field name | Mandatory | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TITLE| required |Title of the voting option.|
| DESCRIPTION| required |Description of the voting option to be displayed to the voter.|
| XDR| required |The xdr to be signed by the turret signers in case the option has won the election. It will be signed in the ```execute``` action step.|

Example:

```
VERSION="0.0.1"
PROPOSAL_NAME="Test Proposal"
PROPOSAL_DESCRIPTION="The description of this proposal"
PROPOSAL_CONTACT_EMAIL="hi@testdao.org"
PROPOSAL_DISCUSSION_LINK="https://testdao.org"
PROPOSAL_VOTING_TOKEN="GOV:GBNOMH3B6BIQE65TZVVBNOCTMLN7MYORU5GX6YNBX5YBGCI45R2EMGOV"
PROPOSAL_DURATION_SECONDS="3000"
QUORUM_STATIC="40000"
[[PROPOSAL_VOTING_OPTIONS]]
label="one"
value="vote for one"
xdr="AAAAAgAAAAAzmy8imtejMIgSbMMXk9hGT0JwJAYgqSa6qUHsfvTOAwAAAGQAFDXMAAAAAQAAAAEAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAEAAAAAAAAAAQAAAABjI7vSXjmgz0+a3XZS/qPXSjVpkiTnnDovaOi12CdJ2AAAAAAAAAAABfXhAAAAAAAAAAAA"
[[PROPOSAL_VOTING_OPTIONS]]
label="one"
value="vote for one"
xdr="AAAAAgAAAAAzmy8imtejMIgSbMMXk9hGT0JwJAYgqSa6qUHsfvTOAwAAAGQAFDXMAAAAAQAAAAEAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAEAAAAAAAAAAQAAAABjI7vSXjmgz0+a3XZS/qPXSjVpkiTnnDovaOi12CdJ2AAAAAAAAAAAC+vCAAAAAAAAAAAA"
```

### Turret signers

The smart contract must be uploaded to 5 turret servers. When uploading, a specific sigener for the contract is returned from each turret server. With this signer the turret server signs the resulting xdr as soon as the smart contract is executed. The 5 signers must be passed as parameters to the smart contract when creating the proposal, so that they can be set as signers of the proposal account.

### Contract logic of the create proposal action

#### 1. validate parameters and data
#### 2. create xdr based on data provided by the parameters
#### 2.a. create the proposal account having
- *signers*: 5 turret signers provided by parameter and 3 DAO rescue signers from dao.toml:PROPOSAL_ACCOUNT_RESCUE_SIGNERS, each having a weight of 1
- *master key weight*: 0
- *thresholds*: all set to 3
- *data entries*: ```staus="active"```, ```proposal_data_hash="..."```
#### 2.b. let the proposal account trust the voting tokens
#### 2.c. create a selling offer for each proposal option
- *selling*: "OPTION[x]:proposal_account_id" tokens 
- *buying*: voting tokens asspecifield in dao.toml (PROPOSAL_VOTING_TOKEN)
- *amount*: max
- *price:* 1.0
#### 2.d. create a payment of voting tokens from the source account to the proposal account (bond)
- *amount*: as specified in CREATE_PROPOSAL_BOND
#### 2.e. create small a payment of XLM from the nonce account to the proposal account
- this is to make sure that the xdr can only be send to the stellar network if signed by min 3 turret signers.

## Voting

Voters puchase the "OPTION[x]:proposal_account_id" tokens offered by the proposal account. They can exchange them back for voting tokens after the tally.

## Close proposal

To close a proposal the user has to execute the smart contract with the action parameter set to ```action='close'```. 

Other **parameters** are:
- account id of the source account used to finance this operation (executors account)
- proposal account id - see [create proposal](#-create-proposal)
- a link to the specific configuration of the proposal - see [proposal data specification](#specification-of-the-proposal)

The **XDR** resulting from the execution of the contract is signed by the turret servers and has to be also signed by the user with the signer(s) of the source account before submitted to the stellar network.  

### Contract logic of the close proposal action

#### 1. validate parameters and data
#### 2. delete offers if the proposal can be closed (check duration)
#### 3. set status to closed in data entry of proposal account


## Tally proposal

To count the votes of a closed proposal the user has to execute the smart contract with the action parameter set to ```action='tally'```. 

Other **parameters** are:
- account id of the source account used to finance this operation (executors account)
- proposal account id - see [create proposal](#-create-proposal)
- a link to the specific configuration of the proposal - see [proposal data specification](#specification-of-the-proposal)

The **XDR** resulting from the execution of the contract is signed by the turret servers and has to be also signed by the user with the signer(s) of the source account before submitted to the stellar network.  

### Contract logic of the tally proposal action

#### 1. validate parameters and data
#### 2. count the votes and find the winner
#### 3. set status to finished if winner was found otherwise to failed (no option reached the quorum)
#### 4. create offers to sell the collected voting tokens back to the voters
- *selling*: voting tokens asspecifield in dao.toml (PROPOSAL_VOTING_TOKEN)
- *buying*: "OPTION[x]:proposal_account_id" tokens 
- *amount*: calculated by query horizon assets endpoint
- *price:* 1.0
#### 5. create a payment operation to send the bond back to the creator
#### 6. merge nonce account into source account

## Execute proposal

For execution of a finished proposal the user has to call the smart contract with the action parameter set to ```action='execute'```. 

Other **parameters** are:
- account id of the source account used to finance this operation (executors account)
- proposal account id - see [create proposal](#-create-proposal)
- a link to the specific configuration of the proposal - see [proposal data specification](#specification-of-the-proposal)

The **XDR** resulting from the execution of the contract is signed by the turret servers.

### Contract logic of the execution proposal action

#### 1. validate parameters and data
#### 2. load and return the winner option xdr from the proposal data

## Test curretnt version
You can find a description here on how to [test the smart contract locally](smart-contracts/).
